.TH ndpp 1 "May 2014" " " "NDPP"
.SH NAME
ndpp \- Executes the NDPP ACE pre-processor code
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command is used to execute the NDPP code. It is assumed that
a set of XML input files has already been created and that ACE format cross
sections are available.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBndpp\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIpath\fR]
.PP
It is assumed that if no
.I path
is specified, the XML input files are present in the current directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-v\fR, \fP\-\-version"
Show version information.
.TP
.B "\-?\fR, \fP\-\-help"
Show help message.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The behavior of
.B ndpp
is affected by the following environment variables.
.TP
.B CROSS_SECTIONS
Indicates the default path to the cross_sections.xml summary file that is used
to locate ACE format cross section libraries if the user has not specified the
<cross_sections> tag in
.I ndpp.xml\fP.
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2013-2014 Adam G Nelson and Contributors.
.PP
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:
.PP
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.PP
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
The NDPP source code is hosted on BitBucket at
https://www.bitbucket.org/nelsonag/ndpp. With a BitBucket account, you can
submit issues directly on the repository that will then be reviewed by NDPP
developers.
