ace_header.o: constants.o
ace_header.o: endf_header.o

fission.o: ace_header.o
fission.o: constants.o
fission.o: error.o
fission.o: global.o
fission.o: interpolation.o
fission.o: search.o

interpolation.o: constants.o
interpolation.o: endf_header.o
interpolation.o: error.o
interpolation.o: global.o
interpolation.o: search.o
interpolation.o: string.o

list_header.o: constants.o

ace.o: ace_header.o
ace.o: constants.o
ace.o: error.o
ace.o: fission.o
ace.o: global.o
ace.o: material_header.o
ace.o: output.o
ace.o: set_header.o
ace.o: string.o

chi.o: ace_header.o
chi.o: constants.o
chi.o: dict_header.o
chi.o: error.o
chi.o: fission.o
chi.o: hdf5_interface.o
chi.o: global.o
chi.o: interpolation.o
chi.o: output.o
chi.o: search.o
chi.o: string.o

ndpp.o: ace.o
ndpp.o: ace_header.o
ndpp.o: constants.o
ndpp.o: chi.o
ndpp.o: dict_header.o
ndpp.o: hdf5_interface.o
ndpp.o: error.o
ndpp.o: global.o
ndpp.o: output.o
ndpp.o: scatt.o
ndpp.o: string.o
ndpp.o: timer_header.o

error.o: global.o

freegas.o: constants.o
freegas.o: error.o
freegas.o: global.o
freegas.o: legendre.o
freegas.o: search.o
freegas.o: string.o

global.o: ace_header.o
global.o: constants.o
global.o: dict_header.o
global.o: hdf5_interface.o
global.o: material_header.o

initialize.o: constants.o
initialize.o: error.o
initialize.o: global.o
initialize.o: output.o
initialize.o: string.o

legendre.o: ace_header.o
legendre.o: constants.o
legendre.o: error.o
legendre.o: global.o

main.o: global.o
main.o: ndpp.o
main.o: initialize.o
main.o: output.o

output.o: ace_header.o
output.o: constants.o
output.o: global.o
output.o: string.o

sab.o: ace_header.o
sab.o: constants.o
sab.o: error.o
sab.o: global.o
sab.o: legendre.o
sab.o: search.o
sab.o: string.o

scatt.o: ace_header.o
scatt.o: constants.o
scatt.o: dict_header.o
scatt.o: hdf5_interface.o
scatt.o: error.o
scatt.o: global.o
scatt.o: interpolation.o
scatt.o: output.o
scatt.o: sab.o
scatt.o: scattdata.o
scatt.o: search.o
scatt.o: string.o

scattdata.o: ace_header.o
scattdata.o: constants.o
scattdata.o: dict_header.o
scattdata.o: error.o
scattdata.o: freegas.o
scattdata.o: global.o
scattdata.o: interpolation.o
scattdata.o: legendre.o
scattdata.o: output.o
scattdata.o: search.o
scattdata.o: string.o

search.o: error.o
search.o: global.o

set_header.o: constants.o
set_header.o: list_header.o

string.o: constants.o
string.o: error.o
string.o: global.o

timer_header.o: constants.o
